Hello, team.

Today we start learning spring core.

This is very interesting and important topic that will help you to understand all further lessons about

spring.

Today we are going to have theoretical lesson, but believe me, this is important.

In order you can proceed with learning and understanding of practical examples.

I know that series sometimes may sound boring, but I will try to make it as interesting as possible.

I will not tell you redundant things and I will be as short as possible to share with you only necessary

things.

In this lesson we are going to hold an overview and learn spring framework architecture and you are

going to understand the place of spring core in the general architecture.

We will learn such basic and important concepts as inversion of control and dependency injection.

After that, we are going to talk about spring inversion of control container.

I'm going to review with you key types that we are going to work with while interacting with a spring

container.

I will explain what a spring context is.

Besides that, today we are going to learn super important concept that is called spring beans.

We will learn what is a and we will review the scopes of spring beans.

And at the end of the lesson we'll review what a spring expression language is.

We have a lot of things to learn today.

Let's start our lesson.

Let's start from learning of architecture of Spring framework and understand what is the role and place

of spring core in the general spring architecture like we have learned already in the introduction lesson

about the spring.

Spring framework consists of many different components.

The spring framework comprises several modules and features such as inversion of control, aspect oriented

programming.

DAO Context or Depb MVC.

ET cetera.

We'll learn these modules and features one by one, but there is some basics that lies in the core for

all modules.

I'm talking about core spring inversion of control, container dependency, injection, spring context

and such basic concepts as spring bean.

You can see on this slide where core container is located.

So it is like in basement of the spring framework.

It contains the fundamental modules that are the cornerstone of spring framework.

Core Spring core is a core of the framework that power features such as inversion of control and dependency

injection beans.

Spring Beans provides bean factory which is sophisticated implementation of the factory pattern.

Context.

Spring context builds on core and beans and provides a medium to access defined objects.

Application context interface is the core part of the context module and the spring context.

Support provides support for third party interactions such as caching, mailing and template engines.

Spring Expression Language.

Spring expression enables users to use the spring expression language to query and manipulate the object

graph at runtime.

Before moving to other slides and learning specifics of spring.

Let's understand such core concepts as inversion of control and dependency injection.

IOC inverts the flow of control as compared to traditional control flow.

In traditional programming, the flow of the business logic is determined by objects that are statically

bound to one another.

This inversion of control the flow depends on the object graph that is built up during program execution.

Such a dynamic flow is made possible by object interactions that are defined through abstractions.

This runtime binding is achieved by mechanisms such as dependency, injection or service locator in

IOC.

The code could also be linked statically during compilation, but you will find that to execute the

code, the external configuration will be used to build object graph and manage all the dependencies

so you already can understand that dependency injection is just one of the possible ways how we can

implement inversion of control.

Dependency injection is a pattern we can use to implement IOC where the control being inverted is set

in an object's dependencies.

Connecting objects with other objects or injecting objects into other objects is done by an assembler

rather than by the objects themselves.

There are three main ways in which a client can receive injected services.

Constructor injection where dependencies are provided through a client class constructor.

Setter injection where the client exposes a setter method which accepts the dependency interface injection

where the dependencies interface provides an injector method that will inject the dependency into any

client passed to it.

Okay.

Now when we have learned what an inversion of control and dependency injections are.

Let's understand now what a spring IOC container is.

The IOC container is responsible to instantiate, configure and assemble the objects.

The IOC container gets information from the XML file or Java annotations and works accordingly.

The main tasks performed by IOC Container are to instantiate the application class to configure the

object to assemble the dependencies between the objects.

Spring IOC is a mechanism to achieve loose coupling between objects dependencies to achieve loose coupling.

And dynamic binding of the objects at runtime objects, dependencies are injected by other assembler

objects.

Spring IOC Container is a program that injects dependencies into an object and make it ready for our

use.

In other words, with a spring IOC, we have entity in our program that is in charge of the life cycle

of our objects and dependencies between them.

We can manage our dependencies between objects directly in the configuration files.

Let's review the key interfaces and types that are in charge of spring inversion of Control container.

Spring IAC Container provides us different ways to decouple the object dependencies.

Bean factory is the root interface of spring IOC container.

Application context is a child interface of bean factory interface.

Some of the useful child interfaces of application contexts are configurable application context and

web application context.

Spring Framework provides a number of useful application context implementation classes that we can

use to get the spring context and then the spring bean.

Some of the useful application context implementations is that we use are annotation config application

context.

If we are using spring in standalone Java applications and using annotations for configuration, then

we can use this to initialize the container and get the bean objects.

Classpath XML application context.

If we have spring bean configuration XML file in standalone application, then we can use this class

to load the file and get the container object.

File system.

XML application context.

This is similar to classpath.

XML application context, except that the XML configuration file can be loaded from anywhere in the

file system.

Annotation config web application context, an XML web application context for web applications for

a standalone application, we need to initialize the container somewhere in the application and then

use it to get the spring beans.

We mentioned spring context on previous slides.

Let me now explain you what it is.

The context in the spring framework is shorthand for application context type and its child types.

Spring context is a programming construct that framework uses to access components from the inversion

of control container where they are cache.

Linguistically.

Context is a vague term for the abstract set of circumstances in which an event occurs.

However, in the context of the spring framework, the application context is well defined and understood

by framework users as a state of the IOC container from which a component has been produced via dependency

injection.

Hope that this is clear now.

Also during the course were often we are going to use such term as spring bean.

Let's understand.

What is it?

Spring bean is nothing special.

Any object in the spring framework that we initialize through spring container is called Spring Bean.

Any normal Java project class can be a spring bean.

It is configured to be initialized with a container by providing configuration metadata information.

Each bean in spring container has its own scope.

What is bean scope?

Bean scopes refers to the lifecycle of bean.

That means when the object of bean will be instantiated, how long does the object leave and how many

objects will be created for that bean sprout?

Basically, it controls the instance creation of the bean and it is managed by the spring container.

There are five scopes defined for spring beans Singleton.

Only one instance of the bean will be created for each container.

This is the default scope for the spring beans.

While using this scope, make sure Bean doesn't have shared instance variables.

Otherwise it might lead to data inconsistency issues.

Prototype.

A new instance will be created every time the bean is requested.

Request.

This is the same as prototype scope.

However, it's meant to be used for web applications and new instance of the bin will be created for

each HTTP request.

Session.

A new bill will be created for each HTTP session by the container.

Application scope container creates one instance per web application runtime.

It is almost similar to singleton scope with only two differences.

That is.

Application scoped bean is singleton per served context, whereas Singleton scoped.

Bean is singleton per application context.

Please note that there can be multiple application contexts for a single application.

Application scoped bean is visible as a servlet context attribute.

WebSocket.

WebSocket scoped beans are stored in the websocket session attributes.

The same instance of the bean is then returned whenever the bean is accessed during the entire WebSocket

session.

Spring framework is extendable and we can create our own scopes too.

However, most of the times we are good with the scopes provided by the framework.

And the last but not the least, that I would like to talk about today is spring expression language.

It is an extension to the expression language defined in JSP.

It provides support to setting and getting property values.

Method Invocation.

Access and collection.

And indexers.

Named Variables.

Logical and Arithmetic Operators.

Retrieval of objects by name, etcetera.

The spring expression language is a powerful expression language that supports querying and manipulating

an object graph at runtime.

We can use it with XML or annotation based spring configurations.

That's all what I wanted to share with you today.

Let's recap what we have learned in the lesson.

In this lesson, we have learned how spring framework architecture looks like.

We learned what an inversion of control is and what a dependency injection is and how they are different.

We talked about inversion of control container in spring and reviewed key types that we are going to

work with while interacting with Container in spring.

I explained to you what a spring context is.

Also, we have learned such important concepts as spring beans and reviewed spring beans scopes.

And at the end of the lesson we talked about spring expression language.

That's it for this lesson.

It is important you learn concepts from this lesson in order to be able to proceed with practical examples

and understand them well.

Thanks a lot for your attention.

Have a great day and see you in the next lesson.


